So, what is the product manager then?
A product manager manages product,
full stop the end,
we can just go home now, right?
No, I would say the primary
job of a product manager,
if I'm just gonna like try and
make some really broad strokes here,
is determining what the team works on.
And that's gonna be via strategy,
that's gonna be via writing product specs,
meetings, those kind of things.
And they just kind of figure out
how to marshal the resources that
are available towards projects
that gonna be the highest impact,
to move the company's goals forward.
It involves what you're working on now,
right?
So that's gonna be like going to the stand
ups and the sprint meetings, and
the backlog grooming and things like that,
and kind of helping with prioritization.
Prioritization is a massive part
of being a product manager,
it's a lot of research of like what
are we soon going to be working on?
What's soon going to be important to us?
There's some longer term like
vision things as well, of like,
what's way down on the horizon?
Are we heading in the direction
that we as a company wanna go?
And then I've mentioned this a bunch of
times but it also just feels gaps, right?
If you don't have a marketing manager,
if you don't have a project manager,
if you don't have a designer,
if your team needs an extra developer for
the sprint,
I've done all of those things as a PM.
Yeah, and
I like this list here that I came up with.
So, some of it is going to be your
ideas of stuff that you work on, but
I would say most of the things
that my team actually ends
up working on either came
from the engineering team,
came from customers with something in
the backlog from someone else, right?
So you do work on your own ideas, and you
do make your own bets of things like, hey,
I think this is gonna be a cool thing, we
should probably try and get ahead of this.
But it's also organizing ideas from your
greater network of ideas available to you.
It's then taking those ideas and
prioritizing them, as like,
we're gonna work on this first.
This is important, we have to ship this,
we don't have to ship this.
This is a nice to have.
If you know as a PM if anything's
nice to have means you're never gonna
have it, right?
That's just how that works,
cuz there's always something pressing.
You create plans and roadmaps of
the near future and the short term.
Generally, that manifests as quarters.
I would say most product
managers think in quarters.
In fact,
today is the first day of my quarter for
me, because Snowflake is off by a month.
It's incredibly annoying.
I miss being on the normal quarters of
January and April so on, and so forth.
But here we are, you align your own
team's goals to the company's goals.
So for me, I work on a Python
open source library, but
I still have to ladder up my ideas to
what Snowflake is working on, right?
So it's kind of keeping
those things in alignment.
And then the fifth thing is just whatever
you have to do to get things done.
That's kind of my vision of what a PM is.
And I'm sure if you ask 10 PMs,
you're gonna get 11 different
ideas of what a PM actually does.
So, that's my general list, and
I think I'm probably within rounding
errors of what most people
would say of what a PM does.
Questions, concerns, profanities?
>> Have you run into any friction,
and if so,
how did you resolve said
friction when your team's goals
don't align with those of
the organization or peer teams?
>> So, those are two very different
things, and it's a good question.
So, let's do the first one which is, what
do I do when my team's goals don't align
with my organization's goals,
usually means I'm wrong, right?
Because you work for that company,
the company has a vision
of where it's trying to go.
And if your team is going this way and
the rest of the company is going that way,
you need to have some serious answers
of why you're running this way,
because you don't want
product teams doing that.
This is actually, in my opinion,
one of Stripe's biggest problems and
I love working at Stripe.
But it's a little bit of product anarchy
there, which is why they have 17 products,
and they're all awesome, but they
don't work together super well, right?
And it's because they have a bunch of
teams going slightly different directions,
now that they're reading that in,
they're working on it.
That's an acknowledgement that I've
had for a long time, and I think from
the outside you probably can't tell Cuz
Stripe is still an awesome product, right?
But it couldn't be better, right?
And I was also in the muck with them and
frustrated and whatever.
You learn to criticize your
own company in special ways.
So, generally, your revision needs to
align with the organizational vision, and
if you don't align with that you shouldn't
help change the organizational vision.
The second one is what if you don't align
with sister teams, if they are laddering
up to organizational vision and you're
laddering up to organizational vision,
I would argue that generally you
are heading in the same direction, right?
Because you're both adhering to a vision.
You're gonna have nuanced differences
of why you think yours is better or
different than theirs, and that's okay.
You don't have to have perfect alignment
because it takes too long to figure that
out, right?
Where it can come into some conflict
if like, let's say I'm doing, and
this happens to me quite a bit, it's like,
I have this thing that I wanna build, but
I need other teams to build things
that allow me to accomplish that.
And we'll talk a lot about
technical communication.
This is called influencing
without authority.
Whenever you interview to be
a product manager at a company,
they're gonna ask you questions about
how do you influence without authority?
It's one of the critical
principles of being a good PM.
The short answer is like you'd find
a way to frame your idea in their goals.
And so if you can convince them as like,
by helping me, you're helping yourself,
generally your stuff will have
a much easier time of getting done.
But, it's not always possible and
it's gonna vary a lot by company.
At Stripe, I had to convince them,
because Stripe is very bottoms up.
And at Microsoft,
I would go convince their boss, and
then their boss would tell him to do it,
right?
Because that's how Microsoft works.
So, you just kinda have to figure
out what game of thrones or
game of you know rolling off his
chair that you're playing, right?
Yeah, Mark?
>> As a PM, are you generally
taking in the technical roadmap and
marrying it into the feature roadmap?
Or do you have any other ways to negotiate
things like paying down tech debt?
How deep are you into the tech?
>> That's a good question.
Me being the nature of that I actually
care how they're implementing it.
I would say a lot of product
managers just kind of say like,
we're working on these things,
I don't care how you do it.
I actually do care cuz I'm interested and
I like technology.
So I work super closely with
my engineering managers.
Like I am glued to my engineering
manager at Snowflake and Mateo's great.
So, our technical and
feature roadmap are the same thing.
And I make sure that we're always very in
touch with where the engineers think that
we are, so that we have enough space to
make sure that we're paying down the tech
debt that we need to.
That's my product management style.
That's just driven by my
interest in how we do things.
We were in the middle of a Kubernetes
migration kind of project, and
I am very in the details of
how are we storing secrets?
Where are the secrets going?
How are we routing traffic?
Because I care, and I like those things,
and I have a lot of experience in those.
You could also equally argue that I
should be more off in feature led,
and trying to,
manage those kinds of things as well.
I'm just going to come down to
what's important to your team, and
what's important to you?
So, some companies will keep separate
feature and technical roadmaps,
engineering managers will
define the technical and
product managers defined the product ones.
I don't like that,
I think they should be the same thing.
So far the companies I've worked at
they have been the same thing, but
it's gonna depend on your company there.
You just lean into your strengths,
I guess.
In me being a part of the technical stuff,
it's me leaning into my strengths.
>> How would you tackle a company
trying to push those product
management responsibilities and
roles on the developers?
>> It's a good question.
It depends.
That's my whole answer to the question.
Sometimes it's just necessary,
like as a tech lead,
I've had to be a products manager before.
That's why I like when I
jumped in these positions.
It felt really familiar to me because
in the absence of a product manager,
it frequently falls to
the engineering manager or
the tech lead to product
manage their product.
It's necessary.
I don't think I can necessarily apologize
for your organization doing that to you,
because if you don't
have a product manager,
someone has to manage the product.
And if you don't wanna do it,
you should make that very known,
make sure that someone else is doing it.
Because otherwise, you're all gonna build
weird things that don't fit together.
I think product managers are necessary.
That might be my own bias showing
here a little bit, right?
So, it's gonna depend on,
does your team have a product manager and
your product manager
is not helping enough?
Is it that your team doesn't have one and
it needs one?
It's gonna depend.
But I do see frequently engineers
do have to act as mini PMs.
I liked it when I was an engineer, and
I think that's why I liked
being a PM eventually.
But I liked having a lot of say in
what we build as opposed to just being
told what to build.